# Final-Project Final Report
## Introduction 
For our project, we analyzed three different factors in order to conclude what the best neighborhood is in Pittsburgh.  Initially, our approach was to analyze the neighborhoods based off of the income of its residents and its crime rates.  After looking into different data bases, none of the income data sufficiently matched what we were looking for so we decided to analyze the amount of trash (in tons) that is dumped in each neighborhood as well as its crime rates.

## The Metric
As mentioned above, our metric to measure "bestness" of the Pittsburgh Neighborhoods is the number (in tons) of trash at illegal dump sites, the number of non-traffic police citations, and crime incident data from the Police Incident Blotter.  Our ideal neighborhood would have the least amount of trash and police citations.  The links to the data sets are found below.
https://data.wprdc.org/dataset/allegheny-county-illegal-dump-sites/resource/ee834d8d-ae71-4b3b-b02b-312ba321ff17
https://data.wprdc.org/dataset/non-traffic-citations/resource/6b11e87d-1216-463d-bbd3-37460e539d86
https://data.wprdc.org/dataset/uniform-crime-reporting-data/resource/044f2016-1dfd-4ab0-bc1e-065da05fca2e

## The Best Neighborhood
After analyzing the different datasets, we have determined that Hays is the best neighborhood in Pittsburgh.  In our datasets, Hays ranked as having one of the lowest amounts of illegal trash dumped (1.3 tons) and lowest amount of police citations and crimes.  From further research, Hays is a neighborhood in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania with a population of 3,025. Hays is mostly residential and has very highly rated public schools.  There are also a lot of bars and parks for its residents.

## Jane's Conclusion
I was surprised to see that Hays was the "best" neighborhood from our metric system.  I am from Pittsburgh and had never heard of this area so I was expecting it to be Shadyside or Squirrel Hill.  After researching Hays it seems more rural than a usual Pittsburgh neighborhood so I am not surprised that is has a lower crime rate since it has a lower population.  Hayes also seems relatively small, only 1.75 square miles, so it makes sense that the amount of illegal trash dumped would be less.  It seems like a great area for families.

## Rowan's Conclusion
Originally, the metrics we chose for the project were two police data sets and one for income. However, after analyzing the data sets, it came to our attention that the dataset regarding incomes did not have the neighborhood column that both police datasets had, this led us to replace it with a garbage data set. After looking back, it should have been apparent that the least garbage and crime without taking into account population, would be a very rural neighborhood. However, I was still shocked by how rural of a neighborhood it was. After these considerations, I would still consider it the winning neighborhood. A comprimise between the lowest amount of crime and the smallest amount of garbage seems like a fantastic place to live. On top of this, research has led me to the conclusion that this neighborhood is a very natural and serene area that, while not one of our measures, definitely backs up our original conclusion.

## Alexa's Conclusion
Since I am not originally from Pittsburgh I am not very familiar with the different neighborhoods in the area. Because of this, I wasn’t surprised that the “best” neighborhood was a place I had never heard of. Some areas that I am familiar with that I could have predicted to be the best neighborhood are Squirrel Hill and Highland Park. However, since both of these neighborhoods are larger than Hayes it makes sense that based on our metric of police citations, blotter data, and trash dumpsites, a smaller neighborhood would come up as the best. Based on the information I could find about Hays it appears to have a population of about 3,000 and the average property value is around $120,000. Furthermore, the most common crime in the area is theft and I couldn’t find any reports of violent crime. Hays also is home to some natural areas including one of the few Bald Eagle nests in Pittsburgh. For all these reasons I believe that our metric of measuring neighborhoods worked fairly well since in addition to having a low crime rate and a small number of trash dumps Hays also seems to be a genuinely nice place to live.     
